Riffle shuffles (#1297)
UniMath/agda-unimath: src/univalent-combinatorics/riffle-shuffles.lagda.md

# Riffle shuffles

```agda
module univalent-combinatorics.riffle-shuffles where
```

<details><summary>Imports</summary>

```agda
open import elementary-number-theory.addition-natural-numbers
open import elementary-number-theory.inequality-standard-finite-types
open import elementary-number-theory.natural-numbers

open import foundation.automorphisms
open import foundation.conjunction
open import foundation.dependent-pair-types
open import foundation.equivalences
open import foundation.function-types
open import foundation.universe-levels

open import foundation-core.coproduct-types
open import foundation-core.propositions

open import order-theory.order-preserving-maps-posets
open import order-theory.posets

open import univalent-combinatorics.standard-finite-types
```

</details>

## Idea

> We show how to shuffle cards. A **`(p , q)`-riffle shuffle** of the
> [standard finite type](univalent-combinatorics.standard-finite-types.md)
> `Fin (p +ℕ q)` is an [equivalence](foundation.equivalences)
> `s : Fin p + Fin q ≃ Fin (p +ℕ q)` such that the compositions
> `map-equiv s ∘ inl, map-equiv s ∘ inr` are
> [monotone](order-theory.order-preserving-maps-posets).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A
`(p , q)`-{{#concept "riffle shuffle" Disambiguation="on standard finite types" Agda=riffle-shuffle-Fin}}
of the [standard finite type](univalent-combinatorics.standard-finite-types.md)
`Fin (p +ℕ q)` is an [equivalence](foundation-core.equivalences.md)
`s : Fin p + Fin q ≃ Fin (p +ℕ q)` such that the compositions
`map-equiv s ∘ inl, map-equiv s ∘ inr` are
[monotone](order-theory.order-preserving-maps-posets.md).
```

Author: Ah, yeah, that looks good!

> ## Definition
> 
> ```agda
> module _
>   (p q : ℕ)
>   where
>   left-deck : Poset lzero lzero
>   left-deck = Fin-Poset p
> 
>   right-deck : Poset lzero lzero
>   right-deck = Fin-Poset q
> 
>   full-deck : Poset lzero lzero
>   full-deck = Fin-Poset (p +ℕ q)
> 
>   is-shuffle-prop-left : (s : Fin p + Fin q ≃ Fin (p +ℕ q)) → Prop lzero
>   is-shuffle-prop-left s =
>     preserves-order-prop-Poset left-deck full-deck (map-equiv s ∘ inl)
> 
>   is-shuffle-prop-right : (s : Fin p + Fin q ≃ Fin (p +ℕ q)) → Prop lzero
>   is-shuffle-prop-right s =
>     preserves-order-prop-Poset right-deck full-deck (map-equiv s ∘ inr)
> 
>   is-shuffle-prop : (s : Fin p + Fin q ≃ Fin (p +ℕ q)) → Prop lzero
>   is-shuffle-prop s = is-shuffle-prop-left s ∧ is-shuffle-prop-right s
> 
>   is-shuffle : (s : Fin p + Fin q ≃ Fin (p +ℕ q)) → UU lzero
>   is-shuffle s = type-Prop (is-shuffle-prop s)
> 
>   shuffle : UU lzero
>   shuffle = Σ (Fin p + Fin q ≃ Fin (p +ℕ q)) λ s → is-shuffle s

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Definitions

### Riffle shuffles on standard finite types

```agda
module _
  (p q : ℕ)
  where

  is-left-riffle-shuffle-prop-Fin :
    (s : Fin p + Fin q ≃ Fin (p +ℕ q)) → Prop lzero
  is-left-riffle-shuffle-prop-Fin s =
    preserves-order-prop-Poset
      ( Fin-Poset p)
      ( Fin-Poset (p +ℕ q))
      ( map-equiv s ∘ inl)

  is-right-riffle-shuffle-prop-Fin :
    (s : Fin p + Fin q ≃ Fin (p +ℕ q)) → Prop lzero
  is-right-riffle-shuffle-prop-Fin s =
    preserves-order-prop-Poset
      ( Fin-Poset q)
      ( Fin-Poset (p +ℕ q))
      ( map-equiv s ∘ inr)

  is-riffle-shuffle-prop-Fin : (s : Fin p + Fin q ≃ Fin (p +ℕ q)) → Prop lzero
  is-riffle-shuffle-prop-Fin s =
    is-left-riffle-shuffle-prop-Fin s ∧ is-right-riffle-shuffle-prop-Fin s

  is-riffle-shuffle-Fin : (s : Fin p + Fin q ≃ Fin (p +ℕ q)) → UU lzero
  is-riffle-shuffle-Fin s = type-Prop (is-riffle-shuffle-prop-Fin s)

  riffle-shuffle-Fin : UU lzero
  riffle-shuffle-Fin = Σ (Fin p + Fin q ≃ Fin (p +ℕ q)) (is-riffle-shuffle-Fin)
```

Author: Defining for generic finite types could be interesting at some point but right now this is just for the standard finite types. I'm good with this renaming too.
